
## 1.   A Friend in Need, Part 1:  

### Synopsis: 

Our adventurers gathered in the Yawning Portal tavern and inn, each for their own reasons, making first introductions and impressions. They met the barkeep & proprietor of the place, Durnan, as well as a barmaid named Bonnie. They broke up a fight between some Xanathar Guild thugs and a half-orc woman named Yagra, before fending off a troll and several stirges that had clammored out of the gaping hole in the middle of the tavern that leads to the Undermountain. After the battle, Volothamp Geddarm approached the party and offered them 10GP each immediately and promised another 100GP each later if they would find his missing friend Floon. The party agreed and spent the evening at the inn so they could embark upon their quest refreshed in the morning.

### Detailed Description: 

Our adventurers start in the Yawning Portal, a famous, or infamous, tavern and inn in the bustling city of Waterdeep. Cat Amcathra, noble half-elf hexblade sat in the VIP section of the tavern, knowing that this venue was where adventures went. Teddy the bugbear barbarian, started outside the inn for… like 6 seconds and then he went in for mead and food. Hastur, a secretive drow, sat alone at a table within eye line of the VIP area. Lainadan, the half elven cleric, stood beside the well worn winch, connected to a platform that descended into the bottomless pit in the center of the tavern, studying it. Era, the wood elf fighter, sat quietly at the bar, nursing the drink she’d acquired from the barkeep, Durnan. 

After flirting with the barmaid Bonnie, and noticing the BUGBEAR at the bar, Cat left the VIP section &  introduced herself, asking if he knew how to find adventure. Pulling out her ancestral blade, she looked up behind the bar to see the many weapons on the wall, and called over Durnan the barkeep to inquire if any sheaths were for sale. Though he was not in the practice or vocation of selling weapons… or their housings… he felt moved enough to reach under the bar and give her a sheath from an unseen weapon. 

Hastur then came over to offer his expertise in putting the sword, sheath, belt, and all that jazz together, as well as buy Cat and her “friend” Teddy a drink. Teddy vehemently denied they were friends. Hastur bought him a drink or three anyway. Cat was initially suspicious but polite and Hastur made an exorbitant effort to be above the board and unthreatening, while also noticing both the barkeep, barmaid(s), and some (later useless) guards at a table some ways away watching. Lainadan, having noticed both the show of arms by Cat and the singular drow, made his way to the bar, asking to investigate the faintly magical weapon. 

A rowdy bar fight interrupted any conversation. A human covered in eye styled tattoos, backed by three similar humanoids, yelled at a lone half orc accusing her of murdering his kin, before attacking her. Unfortunately for him, she quickly beat him to a pulp under the judging eye of literally everyone else in the tavern, including his brethren.

While Hastur gave Teddy drinks to take to the angry humanoids and tried to talk them down, Era and Cat attempted to do something similar, after discerning she had gained the upper hand. While the blade at her throat (courtesy of Era) gave her pause, the offer of a drink made her walk away with Cat.

Cat took the half orc, who she later learned called herself Yagra, to the bar, while Hastur talked to Era about her martial prowess; she was uninterested in such a discussion. Lainadan approached and healed the bloody mess that was the instigator of the fight; the instigator’s friends seemed grateful but wary and left the tavern quickly.  

The party reconvened at the bar. Cat brought up the ongoing conflict between the Zhentarim and Xanathar’s Guild, and Yagra revealed her opinion that the Xanathar’s were dicks and shits and assholes. The party discussed more topics with Yagra and the barkeep Durnan before being distracted by a shriller noise over the din of the crowd \-- to reveal a troll crawling out of the pit to the undermountain, accompanied by a swarm of stirges. 

The party (for the most part) charged the troll. Era, Teddy, and Cat engaged it in melee while Hastur shot at it with an epic hidden hand crossbow from afar, drawing Lainadan’s attention, before he ran into the fray to zapp 2 of the bugs, one of which had attacked an innocent bar patron, to death. 

After wailing upon the troll, Cat struck what was thought to be the final blow on it, but as she celebrated with her blade still in the monstrosity, it stood up and proceeded to take a bite, and a slash out of the noble scion, rendering her unconscious. The party continued in their onslaught and Yagra braved a rake from the troll’s claws to unsuccessfully stabilize Cat, closely followed by a much more professional and actual cleric, Lainadan, who healed Cat and brought her back to consciousness. Meanwhile, Durnan, annoyed at the crawling nuisance that was the troll, hit it with a torch, setting it on fire. 

Era brought the weirdly resolute troll back to its knees, while Teddy the bugbear continued to hit it, having been told that they needed to hit it a lot to kill it. Cat stood up after being bitten and slashed to near death and brought back from the brink to yank her family blade from the gross wriggling mass that was the troll and stabbed it once more. It stayed still, unreacting to the blade in its flesh.

Durnan and other staff of the Yawning Portal tended to the wounded patrons while Teddy tossed the troll back into the gaping hole it had crawled out of and a flamboyant merchant scribe approached the party. He introduced himself as Volothamp Geddarm and applauded the party as obviously seasoned adventurers because none else could have handled such a threat as well. He asked them to join him in the VIP section and the party followed. Yagra took this opportunity to step back from the party, but told Cat that she was glad she didn’t die and told her to look up Davil if she wanted to take on the Xanathar’s Guild. 

Volo then proceeded to ask the party for help in finding his missing drinking buddy, Floon Blagmaar, a handsome but dumb red headed human last seen in the Skewered Dragon in the Dock Ward. He gave the party 10 gold apiece just to take on the mission and he promised 100 gold more per person should Floon be brought back alive. Though he dressed nicely, Hastur sensed that he did not have as much gold as he promised, and took the offer anyway, approaching Teddy with the deal he had walked out on. Era silently accepted the mission while Lainadan pointed out that the Temple of Gond offered Last Rites if they could not find Floon alive. Volo, distraught by the idea, offered to cover any costs of such a service, but sincerely hoped his friend was alive.

Last to leave the VIP section, Cat was approached by Bonnie, who stated she was very glad the young noblewoman was alive and, lauding her bravery, asked if she could get her anything. Cat gladly accepted more drinks, but above all that, spent a restful and enjoyable evening with Bonnie, while the rest ate, drank, and slept merrily on the house at the Yawning Portal.